Hello everybody and welcome to the midsection challenge.
So this is where you're going to use the skills gained so far to make either a simple object that has
a few different parts or you can create a simple scene with a few objects.
It's entirely up to you which way you go.
Have materials on them.
Have fun.
Pick something straightforward and simple rather than something complex you can get to the complex stuff
later on and I'd just like to show you what I will be going for in this particular lecture.
I'm gonna make a very low poly farm as you can see I'm not worried about windows or doors just the rough
outline to get an impression of the models themselves.
So this is what I'm going to be going for really excited to see what you guys do as well.
Suppose a video now and give us a go okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go and have a look now how I created these low poly buildings and hop on over in splendor.
Okay everybody Welcome back.
What we are going to do here doesn't have a right or wrong way of doing it.
I am going to build up something along the lines of a basic low poly farm.
That's what I've got in my mind.
So let's go ahead and just start doing something and see what happens.
I'm going to go into edit mode here go GZ 1 and lift it up.
Now this is gonna be my barn I think so I'm going to select the face at the back and go g y and move
it along.
I'm going to move along by 2.
I think that's a good starting point.
Now this top of the building here I don't worry about real scales at the moment as long as everything
is relatively.
Next to one another and roughly the right size then I can scale it up later.
I'm going to extrude here and scale in on the x axis extrude again and scale into nothing on the x axis.
I'm going to go with that face selected at the top I'm going to go G.
Bring it down.
And if you remember we're going to have double vertices at the top so I'm going to go vertex and remove
doubles and we can see I've removed two vertices there which does mean if I select this edge on top
I can move around freely.
Okay so that's a basic bond to begin with.
I think that's going to be a basic bond.
I might make it a little wider overall.
Yes I'm gonna make it slightly wider.
I'm gonna select this edge and this edge scale on the x axis by one point five maybe two one point five
makes sense.
Yes that looks much better and I'm gonna do the same with these edges so I'm gonna select that edge
and this edge and scale on the x axis just to bring out.
So it's more of a shape.
I can't remember what that roof shape is called.
Yeah that's absolutely fine.
Now what I am gonna do whilst I'm here.
I'm gonna give myself a little bit of a lean to.
That's what that's called a lean to.
From the top here.
Now I'm gonna bring both of these edges down so we'll go GZ.
There we go.
That's the shape I was looking for here.
And that can come in slightly now as well.
So GZ bring that down and go Scale X spring that's that's about right.
Yeah that looks good.
Now here I'm going to extrude an edge pretty quick.
I can then lock it to the x axis bring it out slightly I was not paying attention to where that was
going.
Bring it down as well.
And we've got ourselves a lean to now I don't have any support posts at the moment and this isn't a
3D shape it's just a face stuck out so it's I'm going to do here I'm going to cite that face and extrude
it slightly down.
Now we're going to have intersecting geometry and look because we've extruded negatively it looks more
like a tray.
So I'm going to undo that and I'm gonna extrude upwards instead.
Now that will do then it looks like a little bit of a gutter and the next thing I need to do is add
in a couple of posts.
So let's go ahead cube and the scale that on every direction but the Z by point two point one.
Yeah.
There we go.
I can see it getting smaller and I'll go g x move it out now it's just a matter of making sure it's
the right height as well.
So I'm a whiz round the side.
There we go.
In this case the front view and I'm going to first of all select that top face it go back round to the
side and go g to move it down lock it to the z axis when I do that and then I'm going to rotate it so
it fits within the roof space looking good and I'm going to go round to the side and I'm just going
to duplicate and put these along here every so often I think it's gonna be something like that.
There we go.
Now let's have a look at our bond boom our bond done so now it's just a matter of assigning a couple
of base materials here a theme for our bond if you will.
So I've got a roof piece here I've got also a roof going up and over here and I've got the main barn
itself.
So let's go to our materials and select red farm or farm red.
I'm going to add another material I'm going to call it roof.
Then everything can share this and I'm gonna add another one in and I'm going to call it white paints
because I think these posts are gonna be white so let's make sure we've got some separate colors in
here as well so I'm going to go for a red type building not bright bright red but somewhere in between
I will select everything and just a sign that base color and go to look there.
So I can see what it looks like.
Perfect.
Now these objects along here that we have made because they are separated mesh data we can go along
and press the LDP to select all of those and then we can select our white paint and assign.
Now I can't do the same thing here because it is connected to the rest of the building but what I can
do is I can go along the top here and select those roof pieces because that's not too much of a pain
and assign them roof.
And I'm going to give a darker gray appearance so we know what's going on.
I think I want some white paint around this edge as well so I'm going to select those edges and assign
white paint.
I'm going to make it white as well.
It's nice and bright.
So there we go there's my first building.
Pretty impressive how you can build something up so quickly.
I'm gonna add one final building to my ceiling.
I'm gonna hide this one for now this is gonna be called the barn.
Click the little icon to hide his house on the way whilst I build a cylinder and I'm going to adjust
that cylinder so it's only 16 that sees you may recognize what we've been doing here.
I'm going to go GZ one that's up select this top face good GZ one to lift it up once more I'm going
to extrude it by points.
That'll give me a nice area to select just here and then I'm going to put my dome on top it's going
to be like a silo so let's go ahead create a u v sphere go 16 an eight and I'm going to go g z and lift
that up so hopefully the appropriate place we can move it around and a bit more detail in a moment I'm
going to view it transparent of course you could do this in wireframe as well that's box select these
bottom bits and go X vertices then we can shift this down on top select all of this area with C4 is
still turned on remember and then go vertex all No actually I don't I'm going to re select all of this
slot here there we go and scale it up not on the z axis it's going to add a slight lip around the top.
Okay.
I like that.
Okay so this area at the very top we can select that and assign that a roof color we can then add another
material slot select this lot in the middle.
Now remember because I've got the transparency turned on it's selecting everything.
When we do that the whole lots around.
So just bear that in mind.
I'm going to sign that's the white paint I never really created a new material there so I'm going to
go ahead and that will go.
That's why the zero exists.
If you accidentally create material you don't need you know know how to remove it.
So the white paint I'm going to make sure it's assigned because I didn't see it change color and then
this bottom bit here is gonna be the bond red.
Here we go and make sure you assign it perfect and go back into object mode.
I'm gonna go g x and place this over there and bring my bond back and I'm going to call this I believe
these are called silos.
There we go.
We've now got a silo.
Is that a bit big.
I'm starting to wonder gee X.
Maybe they're How about that my barn is starting to come together really well now I'm going to whiz
off and make a few extra buildings and I'll be back in a moment okay.
So I'm just finishing up here.
I'm happy with my rough layout.
I'm going to go ahead and move the camera around so I can render this out.
So roughly there I've not looked at the lighting in the scene at the moment.
So let's go ahead and switch to rendered mode that lights there doesn't make much sense so I'm gonna
switch it to a sun lamp that looks much better I'm gonna go g y and move it over here and then rotate
it round into like at roughly the right look I'm going for Yeah that's the one thing to watch out for
with the camera.
It can be very confusing which way something is facing.
Here we go.
So I want my long shadows.
They're going off into the distance and I'm just going to rotate it a little bit more brilliant.
I really like how that looks.
I'm going to stick a plane further further back so that we can fake the sky back there.
So I don't use the 3d cursor placement is just place it over their mesh plain scale it's really big
rotates it on the x axis by 90 and rotated on the z axis by 45.
And hopefully it will be in the frame.
There we go.
And then I'm going to call that sky.
Perfect.
Let's go ahead and render that.
And there we go.
Excellent.
I'm quite happy with my low poly models.
What did you end up making.
I'm curious to see.
So pleased to share your work over on the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.